

Developing a web based platform for Freight and Logistics and Verifying Authentic shipping agents in africa.

The idea is to develop a platform for connect customers to local freight and logistics companies, and also help these customers 
have access and visibility to tracking of their products and successful delivery of their products.

This idea came from my recent experience where i had an experience with a shipping agency over the Loss of about
$30,000.00. 
The platform will enagage with freight forwarding companies located withing and outside Nigeria to get on the platform.
These companies will share their processes with us and their corresponding contacts here in Nigeria. while will link them up
with potential importers of products and services.
The platform is to help facilitate movement of products from one region of the world to another and also throw a light 
as to the activities of both the freight forwarding companies/ their agents. The web app will include 
List on forwarding companies,
List of agents attached to forwarding companies
estimated cost for shipping from place of pickup to destination
customs clearing
Items allowed to ship and not allow to ship
shipping options
and possibly payment to both the freight companies and agents


Players in the Industry:
Multinationals: DHL,UPS, FEDEX, Skynet worldwide, Rowsy International, Redstar, TNT

Local Freight companies
Okiki courier Services
Courier Plus
Best Cargo and Shipping services Limited

One Man Business Logistics
Meskana
Gpraise Logistics
One world Logistics
Just to mention a few.

There serveral Vertical in the world of logistics. These verticals comprises of the routes 
We have companies who do USA/CANADA/ EUROPE AND UAE
some companies do ASIA only.
Some do the west african Routes.
There major routes on the Logistics firm.
Our platform will focus on how to bring all these routes to enable full time visibility and adequate price.
In the long run we will cover sea and air freight across the world.


Product Features.
1. Platform will have a growing list of forwarders and agents within and outside the country
2. Shipping calculator based on weight and customs clearinig. This will give you an ontime information as regards what you will pay.
3. Service review. This feature will enable users rate the services of the agents and forwarders after successful completion of the
import and clearing process.
4. Port services and Information: The platform will give up to date information as regards port services and facilities. (Eg, there has been congestion at
apapa ports due to infrastructure breakdown. Information like this will help importers to know when to and hw to ship their goods)
we will also have ports that we operate with and agents that have access to such ports.
5. Flight services and routes. 
6. Price comparism between all forwarding agents and personnel.
7. Ranking and search optimization. We would offer boosting plans for agents who wish to come up high in ranking on the platform. This feature will come 
up later as we would not like to scare them away from onboarding on the platform.
8. Forwarders Details: This will give the user more information about the forwarder. date of incorporation, pricipal managaers and 
9. They will have the following data.
Users who are willing to import , Names addresses, Phone Numbers, email, and maybe age brackets.
Items are that are being imported, qty of the products, weight of the products. and possibly price or the cost in order to help with customs clearing proceedure.
with these data we will be able to understand the import patterns of Nigeria.
10. We can also add payment features. we act as middle men to these forwarders, and have backend discount. plus a commision for every successful transaction
11. Sign up will be free for all.
12. Once successful with the Nigerian Model we can move to west africa. and we can then grow intre country import and exports.
13. Upload of picture to enable the importer have an idea of how the pictures of the package looks like while on transit
14. Actual weight after the items have been packaged to enable openness from agent and forwarder.
15. when searching for an agent the mobile version can help you locate an agent/Forwarder registered on the platform closest to you.


Project Development:
We are looking at using PHP/JS to build and develop this platform.

Idea Lead : Musa Harold
Project Developer: Femi


Target Market:
1. All importers
2. Small Business owners whose Revenue is below NGN100 Million
3. Courier Service companies, Agents and forwarders who control a significant market share order than the Big multinational
4. Coporate organization willing to have visibility to their cargo and shipments.
